= bandit

Bandit is a multi-armed bandit optimization framework for Rails.  It provides an alternative to A/B testing in Rails.  For background and a comparison with A/B testing, see the document whybandit.rdoc.

= Installation
First, add the following to your Gemfile in your Rails 3 app:

    gem 'bandit'

Then, run the following:

    bundle install
    rails generate bandit:install

You can then edit the bandit.yml file in your config directory to set your storage and player parameters.  Redis, memcache, and memory storage options are available.  Memory storage should only be used for testing.

See the file players.rdoc for information about available players.

== Configuration
To set up an experiment, add it either somewhere in your code or in the bandit initializer.  Creating an experiment is simple:

    Bandit::Experiment.create(:click_test) { |exp|
      exp.alternatives = [ 20, 30, 40 ]
      exp.title = "Click Test"
      exp.description = "A test of clicks on purchase page with varying link sizes."
    }


== View
To get an alternative (per viewer, based on cookies):

    <%= bandit_choose :click_test %>

For instance, in a link:

    <%= link_to "new purchase", new_purchase_path, :style => "font-size: #{bandit_choose(:click_test)}px;" %>

You can force a particular alternative by adding a query parameter named "bandit_<expname>" and setting it's value to the alternative you want.  For instance, given the above experiment in the configuration example:

    http://<yourhost>/<path>?bandit_click_test=40

will then force the alternative to be "40".

== Controller
To track a conversion in your controller:

   bandit_convert! :click_test

= Dashboard

    rails generate bandit:dashboard

Then, add the following to your config/routes.rb file:

    match 'bandit' => 'bandit#index'

To see a dashboard with relevant information, go to:

    http://<yourhost>/bandit

= Tests
To run tests:

    rake test

To produce fake data for the past week, first create an experiment definition.  Then, run the following rake task:

    rake bandit:populate_data[<experiment_name>]

For instance, to generate a week's worth of fake data for the click_test above:

    rake bandit:populate_data[click_test]

